1. When should you use a while loop instead of a for loop?
    Validation or when you do not have a predetermined amount of time you want a loop to iterate.

2. What is the main difference between a while loop and a do-while loop in terms of execution?
    Do-while loop is a postcondition loop. The condition is checked after executing once. Good for 
    displaying to the user before getting input.

3. What problem do fencepost algorithms solve when printing sequences, and how do they work?
    Avoiding trailing separators, mainly formatting a comma. Good for when writing to a CSV file. Usually has a
    pre-defined variable like int first = 1; Then the loop starts at 2, but prints with a leading comma.

4. How would you modify a loop that prints numbers 1 to 10 with commas between them to avoid a trailing comma?
    Pretty much how I just described, Start with creating and printing the 1 variable before the loop, then have 
    the print statement print with a leading comma.

5. What are the possible values of a boolean variable in Java, and how can it be used to control loops?
    True or false. Good for a conditional to trigger when a loop should stop.

6. How can combining multiple boolean expressions with && or || improve control over program flow?.
    Checking multiple conditionals against each other for further validation. && only works if two
    conditions are True, || only requires one to be True.

7. What is a common technique to validate user input using a while loop?
    Scanner object then user hasNext(insert data type here). Validates that their is a value entered 
    before it is even tested against the predetermined condition.

8. Why is Scanner.hasNextInt() useful when validating user input, and how does it prevent exceptions?
    Similar to last answer. hasNextInt validates that the user has entered a valid integer.

9. What happens when an assertion fails during runtime, and when should assertions be enabled?
    The program aborts and the message the programmer provided to the assert is shown. They should
    be used to validate data before calculations are preformed.

10. Why is using assertions helpful during debugging but not recommended for 
    handling user input or production errors?
    An assert for validating user input would cause the program to crash and make validation much more 
    cumbersome as opposed to a simple while loop checking against it and re-prompting the user.